{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Python is an object oriented programming language created by Guido van Rossum in the 1980s inspired by what is called procedural programming. Procedural programming is a programming paradigm, that is based on the concept of making what is called the procedure call. Python\'92s design is supposed to place importance on it\'92s code readability, something that more easily bridges the gap between human written language and programming language. The first version of python was released in 1991, with the latest version being released in 2008. Guido Van Rossum created python for his job at a computer science and math institute called Centrum Wiskunde and Informatica. Python was designed to be a multi paradigm programming language, meaning it is characterized by having multiple versatile features. Python is typically characterized as being an object oriented language and a structured programming language. Object oriented meaning the language structures things into objects and classes, and structured meaning possessing structured, readable code, and reusable components. \
\
\
\
There are 5 main data types in Python. Numeric, Sequence Type, Boolean, Set, and Dictionary. The numeric data type represents everything to do with numbers. The sequence type in python has to do with creating ordered lists. The boolean type is used to measure true or false values. The set type is used to store multiple items in a variable. Lastly, there is the dictionary. The dictionary is used as a guide for storing ordered data values. The data types listed have subtypes. For example, the numeric type has Integers, float, and complex number functions to represent a wide array of potential scenarios such as the difference between calculating whole numbers and fractions. Python's data types help to make the language flexible and capable to serve a wide array of purposes. \
\
\
A function in python, is a group of code. Functions operate in chunks and represent the program carrying out various tasks. A function may be comprised of several lines of code, or just one, each serving it's own purpose. A function, additionally, can be a smaller part of a larger program. There may be several lines of code comprising a function, and several functions that work together to make up a program. Functions can be reused if necessary, so the same action can be carried out multiple times in the same program. Functions can be saved for reuse in certain integrated development environments like visual studios, so they can be pulled for reference any time they need to be reused. Functions are defined in python by 4 steps. The keyword def is used as in "define", followed with a name for the function. The second step is parameters. Parameters are pre-determined rules supplied to the function in order for the function to operate. A function cannot exist without it\'92s parameters. The third step, is adding statements able to be executed, and the 4th is a return statement if the function is intended to output something. \
\
The print statement in python is a function meant to execute a message or an object. The message or object will then be converted into a string, and executed as an output. The print function is versatile and can execute something as simple as a "hello world", or output a math equation. The print statement is seen oftentimes as one of the easiest python functions to learn, because while it is versatile, it can be very simple and a great entry into learning how to execute messages, and objects in Python. The print function can have different uses based on the data types used with it. You might for example, decide to use the print function in conjunction with an If_Else statement to output a conditional message. The values and data types you use will all be output into a function once the print statement is executed. The print statement is the simplest way to produce an output. The parameters for the print function are Value (to assign a value), sep (to create a separator), end (to specify what you want printed at the end), file(an object that has a write method), flush(a boolean true or false value), and lastly returns in order to return an output to the screen. \
}